session of the conference.
I'm glad you chose to come to my session.
I think you'll This is really the
capstone of the entire conference.
So I hope you enjoy it.
My name is David Kraemer.
I am with Xgrid Engineering.
Steve Simon will be joining me later
to demo one of the new features
that I'll be talking about now.
We're going to start with an overview.
This is going to be an
introduction for those of you
who haven't used Xgrid before,
haven't attended one of my sessions.
Show of hands, how many people have never
heard of Xgrid or haven't really
learned anything about Xgrid?
Alright, for the four of you,
this is going to be great.
The rest of you, just a refresher course.
And we're going to get through
this real fast and move on
and talk about new features.
So, let me get back to this.
The main thing we want to let you
know is that Leopard includes Xgrid 2.
Xgrid 1 already was included with
Tiger and we've made some improvements
in Leopard and we're calling it Xgrid 2.
All of the primary components of Xgrid
are included with base Leopard systems,
but the administrative tools that make
it easy for you to deploy your grids
are included with Leopard Server.
And my recommendation is that
you should be able to use Leopard
Server to deploy your grids.
And my recommendation is that to use,
to get these administrative tools,
the best way is to buy an XServe
or 8 or 16 because it's going
to come with Leopard Server,
especially one of those new Xeon,
XServes, QuadCore.
Sounds great.
Buy a bunch, please.
You get the administrative software,
it would be really easy
to set up your cluster.
So as I said,
we're going to start with the overview,
then we're going to move
on to developing for Xgrid,
talk about some of the new
API features we've added,
and talk about the administration.
And those two sections are
going to be completely all
about new features in Leopard.
Stick around.
So why would you want to use Xgrid in the
first place instead of something else?
There's lots of options out there.
I mean, you can use SSH,
you could hire some grad
students to run around and start
stuff on a bunch of computers.
You can do it any way you want,
but we think you should
use Xgrid and here's why.
Well, one is it makes distributed
computing painless and I'll talk a
little bit more about that later,
but the goal here is to make it drop dead
simple for you to deploy your clusters,
for your users to use the
distributed resources that you have.
The next point I'd like to
bring up about why you should
use Xgrid is that it allows
people-friendly sharing of resources.
And so we have a mechanism for
letting people's computers get
used when they aren't using it.
But once they return and
they are using the computer,
Xgrid backs off and it's no
longer monopolizing the computer.
And so people can feel good about
sharing their resources with you.
And one more reason why Xgrid
is great in our opinion is that
it supports a wide variety of
styles of distributed computing.
So one style is sort of the Beowulf
style where you just buy some components,
put it in a rack,
hook it all together with Ethernet,
and you have a dedicated cluster,
a closet or somewhere that just
contains all these computers and
you use it just for your one task.
Maybe you get this cluster because
you write up a grant proposal
and you get this nice cluster.
You set it up.
You run Xgrid on it.
And you do your work.
But we also support other styles.
At the other end of the spectrum,
we have the more SETI at home style.
And this is where you have machines
all across the wide area network,
across the Internet.
And they're connecting to the central
authority for Xgrid and getting
their work and doing it that way.
And so that's SETI at home.
You can get a lot of people involved.
Charles Parnot's Xgrid at
Stanford project is a great
example of that kind of thing.
And then in the middle,
we have the sort of cycle
recovery at an organization.
And that's like where you
have a computer lab or just a
bunch of computers on desks.
And at night, they remain unused.
And so in that case,
it would be nice to make use of those
computers for computing purposes.
So that's why we think
you should use Xgrid,
but who should be using
Xgrid is the next question,
and there's a number of different
people we'd like to be using Xgrid.
We think institutions and organizations
can get a lot of benefit out of using
Xgrid because we're making setting
up distributed computing resources
much easier and much simplified.
So setting it up is just a
few clicks in server admin.
Maintaining it is easy.
There's some really nice graphical
utilities for doing that.
And then once it is set up,
the grid becomes a service,
and it's a service like mail
or print or file sharing,
and the IT department maintains it.
So the people who are good at
maintaining servers maintain the servers,
and the people who are good at doing
distributed computing get to submit
their work to the grid and do it.
And they don't have to worry
about rebooting the servers,
about access controls,
about security authentication, whatever.
They just get to use it.
It's very easy.
So scientists are clearly
one group of people that have
a lot of computing to do.
And so we've been working with
a lot of engineers as well.
I was trained as a physicist,
and now I'm a software engineer
in both of these professions.
I have found that it's very
useful to have a lot of computing
resources when you have a lot of
data that needs to be processed.
So one of the reasons that Xgrid is
nice for these people is because --
and this gets back to the painless
distributed computing concept.
And this is that we have a
persistent job queue in Xgrid.
So this means that you can
fire and forget your work.
So, you know, we have a lot of data.
You can get a lot of data.
And, you know,
it's very easy to get a lot of data.
But we have a lot of data.
And so we've been working with
a lot of different engineers to
be able to get a lot of data.
And so we've been working with
a lot of different engineers to
be able to get a lot of data.
And so we've
So he sets up the job and he
submits the job off to the cluster,
but he doesn't want to stick around all
weekend to wait for this to get done.
He needs to go home.
He wants to spend time with his family,
go to Disneyland, something,
have a good time.
And so what happens with Xgrid
is he can submit the work from
his laptop and then disconnect,
close the lid of his laptop,
take the laptop home,
and the job stays running at work,
at school,
wherever he did the submission.
And it'll just stay there.
It'll keep working.
Xgrid will manage it,
make sure everything goes right.
If anything goes wrong,
it'll try to fix it.
And then when the researcher
returns to work on Monday,
He just reconnects to the controller
and the job results are waiting for
him to download at his convenience.
So we think that makes it much
easier to use grid resources and
one of the benefits of using Xgrid.
And then a third group that we're seeing
more people getting interested in Xgrid,
these people are content producers.
And so one example of content
producers are people using
Apple's Podcast Producer,
which we announced on Wednesday.
And so clearly here they get
to use Xgrid as the distributed
processing engine for doing the video
transcoding for running the workflows.
And so they can get a lot of
benefit out of having Xgrid set up
without actually needing to know
how to write software for Xgrid.
And then there's other third party
applications out there that use Xgrid.
For example, VideoHub uses Xgrid to,
I think it runs FFmpegX across
your network to do
transcoding of video as well.
as well.
So before we get too far into this,
I wanted to talk to you a little
bit about terminology for those
of you who aren't familiar with
the terms I'm going to use.
Actually it's simple and
there's only a few terms here,
but I just want to make sure we're all
on the same page so there's no confusion.
We have clients, controllers and agents.
These are the primary
operators in this process,
the primary people that
are working together.
So the client is the one that has
the work that needs to be done.
This is the scientist, the researcher.
The controller is the process
in the middle that maintains the
job queue and it receives the
work and it distributes it out.
And then finally the agents are
the ones that do the actual work.
It's a little bit dry.
I have a picture here to
make it a little clearer.
So over here we have the clients.
These are people using their computers,
laptops, iMacs, G5s, Xeons,
whatever you have.
They're the ones with the work.
They set up the jobs and they run
an application to submit the work.
And the work gets submitted
to the controller.
The controller is in this middle
tier of this three-tier architecture.
And it's the one that manages everyone
on the other two tiers and makes sure
everyone's playing together right.
So, finally, once your work's been
sent to the controller,
then the controller finds
available agents and sends the
work out to them to get it done.
So, agents, I mean,
agents can be any kind of computer.
It could be the same
computers as the clients.
You could have an Xgrid set up where
all of the clients were also agents.
You can have a controller
that's an agent.
You could have all of these
tiers in one computer and
just have a one computer grid.
Not so exciting.
I think you should buy those
16 Xers I talked about before.
But, you know, this is what we got.
So, the three tiers all in one or
distributed across lots of machines.
So just a little bit more,
and this is kind of like a dictionary,
I'm almost done with the terminology.
What we're actually managing
here in the controller are grids,
jobs, and tasks.
And so the grid is the
collection of agents that the
controller is maintaining.
And you can have multiple grids
that you set up and you can
drag your specific agents that
you want to each separate grid.
And then you can tell people, "Okay,
well, you guys, you submit to this grid,
and you guys submit to that grid."
And then you both get some of the
resources that we have on the network.
And then the grid is also the job queue,
and this is what manages the list of
work that needs to be done and makes sure
that it gets done in the right order.
So a job,
which is what is stored in the job queue,
is the set of tasks that you
want to get done on the agents.
And it also includes the input
and output data of the tasks.
So once the task is finished,
the job includes the output data,
which can be retrieved by the client.
[Transcript missing]
So, that was the workflow,
but what else does Xgrid do?
One thing it does that I didn't mention
before is that it enforces authentication
and authorization policies.
So this means that you can rest
assured that if you set up your
service ACLs that only authorized
people have access to your resources.
As I said before,
it groups agents into grids,
it monitors agent availability,
manages the queues of the jobs,
and then one thing I didn't mention
was that jobs can have dependencies.
So you can submit multiple jobs and say
that these following jobs should not even
be started until the first job completes.
And so the scheduler schedules
runnable jobs when there
are available agents to run.
Xgrid also handles data staging.
As I said,
the jobs and the tasks include the input
data and then collect the output data.
Xgrid will move all the data around
for you if you would like it to.
And then the really important
thing is that it's a very
easy way to run your data.
So you can run your data
in a very simple way.
And then the really important thing
that I think Xgrid does that I like,
my favorite feature I think,
is that it recovers from failures.
And so that's the agent going offline.
It can deal with that and send
the work over to another agent.
And then another way it can
recover from failure is that if the
actual controller were to crash,
heaven forbid,
or if the machine were to be
shut down or maybe you need to
restart for a security update,
you can reboot.
The jobs will persist.
They're stored on disk in a database.
And when the server comes back up,
the jobs are all there and
they will continue running.
And the pieces that have
been finished ahead of time,
all those results are still there.
The tasks that were in process at that
point will get resubmitted once the
agents reconnect to the controller.
So that was the overview.
And now let's talk about what is
new here in Leopard for Xgrid.
So we've addressed three
areas of improvements here.
Ease of developer adoption,
and for that we have three new features:
Xgrid Anywhere, Xgrid Scoreboard,
and Task Feedback, and I'll talk more
about those in a moment.
We've also tried to
address ease of setup,
and to this end we've created a
service configuration assistant
for Xgrid to make it even simpler
to deploy Xgrid on your servers.
It was pretty simple before,
there was only, I don't know, six clicks,
I think we've got it down
to three or four now.
So it's pretty easy to
get going with Xgrid.
And then the final piece that
we've addressed is ease of porting,
and this isn't exactly an Xgrid feature,
but OpenMPI will be
included with Leopard,
so if you have existing
distributed computing applications
that make use of the MPI,
API, you can use OpenMPI in Leopard and
it will automatically use Xgrid
if you have Xgrid configured.
And I see we have some open MPI fans,
so that's great.
So, here's the good stuff.
What's new in Leopard for
writing your Xgrid software?
So, three features: Xgrid Anywhere,
Xgrid Scoreboard, Task Feedback.
Xgrid Anywhere is a feature
that allows your Xgrid-enabled
software to run no matter what.
And by no matter what I mean,
even if there are no controllers
or agents on your network.
So, you're just on a standalone machine,
you're flying 20,000 feet,
heading back home tonight.
You can start writing Xgrid software
on your desktop or your laptop,
your portable machine.
And you don't need to set
up any controller or agent.
And you can just start actually
testing the job submission and results
retrieval right then and there.
Xgrid Scoreboard is a really
exciting new feature that we've
developed based on a lot of feedback
we've gotten on the mailing list
and at previous sessions and Q&A.
Where people have wanted to be
able to specify which resources
are used for a particular job.
And so, we've addressed that with
Xgrid Scoreboard and we'll be
talking about that more soon.
And then Task Feedback is the
third new feature that we've added,
which lets the scheduler make
more informed decisions about
where you want your tasks to run
based on the current conditions.
And that might sound a lot like
Scoreboard and I'll explain sort of
the differences between those two.
These are just the three features
that we're talking about today and
that are included with your seed.
We have more enhancements for Xgrid
that we intend to get in there,
but we're going to
talk about these today.
The first one is Xgrid Anywhere.
And basically the problem
that has come up is that we'd
like everyone to use Xgrid,
and everyone's like, "Well, yeah,
if I had five computers,
everything should just
go five times faster.
That sounds like a good
plan." And they say,
"So can I just drag my application
onto the Xgrid icon in the dock,
and it'll go faster?" And it sounds good.
I'd like that.
But that's unfortunately
not how it works right now.
Sorry.
So there's no free ride.
You do need to adopt Xgrid.
And the problem there is
that adoption is hard.
And I don't mean that Xgrid,
in particular, is hard.
I just mean that adopting things is work.
You're going to have
to learn something new.
There's a new API.
You're going to have to change your code.
And then once you do change your code,
the real problem here is that you still
need to maintain all of the code that
you wrote before to do it all locally,
because you don't know if your users
are going to have Xgrid set up ahead of
time if they're going to have a cluster.
So with Xgrid Anywhere,
we've decided to solve this
by making it so that Xgrid is
available anywhere you are,
no matter what operating system
of Mac OS X Leopard you are using,
desktop or server.
And you can just run the application,
and it'll work.
So now you can rewrite
your code to Xgrid,
and you only need one code path.
It's always going to work,
even if there are no controllers
or agents available on the network.
So there's two pieces that make
up the Xgrid Anywhere feature.
The first one is Xgrid here,
I'll call it.
And this is the private controller.
And basically, there's a new API,
private controller,
on the XG controller class,
which you can call,
which provides your application
with its own private in-memory
space controller and agent.
These controller and agent are
basically running inside your
application's process space.
And you can use them as if
they were a network controller,
a network agent.
Everything is going to
work exactly the same,
job activities, submission, monitoring,
retrieval, all exactly the same.
So you just need one code
path that always will work,
whether or not there's
any network set up.
You also don't need to use this new API.
If you already have a host name
entry field in your application,
you can just type in
this special host name,
colon, private, colon,
and you will connect.
It will instantiate this
private controller and
connect the application to it.
The next piece of Xgrid
Anywhere is Xgrid There.
And this is the default controller.
So what we've done is created
a system and a user preference
that you can set that says,
if I don't know what controller to use,
use this one.
And so this makes it easier for end
users at a large organization who
don't know how to configure Xgrid to
connect to a particular controller.
They don't know which one
they're supposed to use.
You can push these settings out
and then these users will just
automatically connect to the right one.
And so to make use of this feature,
your application should call
the default controller API.
And this will return the default
controller that's been connected up based
on what this setting has been set to.
And then the really interesting
part here is that if no default
controller has been set up,
presumably because there are
no controllers on the network,
you just automatically get
the private controller.
So, you take Xgrid here,
and you take Xgrid there,
and you put them together
and you get Xgrid anywhere.
This makes your application
easier to test and easier to use.
And I've really enjoyed using
this new feature myself because,
like when I was developing some
of the demo code for this session,
I didn't have this rack in my cube.
So,
I needed to make sure the job submission
and results retrieval was working,
and I didn't have to set up a grid.
I just could start the application,
type in colon, private, colon,
and I was going, I could do all,
test all of my application code
without having to set up a grid.
Now,
without having to worry about Kerberos
or passwords or anything like that.
So, if you use the default
controller in your application,
it's always going to work the
way your users want it to do.
Either it's going to use a private
controller and it's just going
to work without a network setup,
or it's going to use
their default controller,
which is the one they want.
[Transcript missing]
The way that you specify to the
controller what you care about
is by including an agent ranking
tool with your job submission.
And this is a tool that you write.
It can be a really lightweight
script or an executable.
And you just include
it along with the job.
And what the controller will do is make
sure that this ranking tool gets run out
on all of the agents in your grid before
it schedules any of your actual tasks,
your computational tasks out there.
And the agent ranking tool gets
to run and it evaluates the
conditions that you care about.
So it could look at syscadol,
it could do benchmarking,
it could look for
specific hardware devices,
licenses.
Whatever you care about and
whatever is important to you,
your tool can evaluate these
and then generate a score.
[Transcript missing]
And then you can use more than
one agent ranking tool and include
them with your job submission.
And then what we'll do is we'll
just take all those scores and
we'll multiply them together and
normalize them so that basically,
I mean,
if any of your arts return a zero score,
then that agent's not going to be used,
but otherwise we're going to
multiply it together and do
the prioritization that way.
Kind of a dry description,
so I have a picture here
to show you how this works.
So you start out,
the client has the job and
the agent ranking tool.
The agent ranking tool
is that nifty-looking,
spinning magnifying glass.
I'm not quite sure what that is,
but it looks pretty cool.
So it gets sent off to the controller,
and the controller monitors and looks
for the agents that are available,
and once it's found them,
it sends the agent
ranking out to them first.
So the art is out at the
agents and it's running,
and it generates a score.
And so in this case,
it's returned a non-zero score
for the first two computers,
but not the last one.
Apparently this art
doesn't really like IMAX.
I don't know.
But so once the controller has retrieved
these results and it knows which scores
have come back from which agents,
it can then send the tasks out.
And so in this case,
the tasks only go out to the ones
that have been shown as acceptable
by the agent ranking tool.
And then finally,
once the agents are done,
the results go back to the controller.
And then the client can
retrieve those results.
So that's the basic scoreboard workflow.
It's pretty handy to be able to use
this to limit where your job runs onto
a very specific subset of the grid.
The third feature that I want to
talk about today that we've added
for developers is task feedback.
And the issue here is that the
scheduler doesn't know everything
about what's going on on the agents.
I mean, it knows whether the
agent's there or not,
but it doesn't really know
about the environment,
and it doesn't know about how the
task is running in that environment.
So sometimes the task can detect
itself a condition that makes that
particular agent that it's running
on at that moment unsuitable.
For instance, maybe the disk fills up.
You're doing some sort of transcoding,
and then you realize, "Hey,
I don't have enough space to
actually finish writing out this
file." That's not going to work.
And so, right now,
your task could just fail,
and then your job would fail,
and then the user would
see the job had failed,
and that wouldn't be very
exciting or make anyone happy.
So what you really want to have happen
there is to have the task restart.
But what's going to happen here
is that if we just told the
controller to restart the task,
it would say, "Oh, well,
that computer that was just
running the task is available now,
I'll just send the task
right back to that same guy."
And that's not what you want,
because the disk is
still full over there.
So you want to make
sure that you can say,
"Well, let's restart this task,
but don't do it here,
please." And so now you can provide this
information back to the controller from
your task about the current situation
on the agent and give the scheduler more
information about what you want it to do
with your task to make better decisions
about where to send it in the future.
So how this works is that agents can
send the task back to the controller,
and then the controller can
send it back to the controller.
So what this works is that agents can,
to their standard out,
send -- in addition to any
logging information or output
that you're sending there,
they can enclose some data in a property
list inside an xgrid XML element.
And the content of this
element is a property list.
It says, "Hey,
what's going on on this agent?" It tells
the controller what it needs to know.
And so there's a few
messages you can send here.
And so the first one sort of gets
back to that example I gave you,
which is that you could say this
agent is unsuitable for this task.
The task has determined that
something's wrong with this
agent as far as it's concerned,
and it just doesn't ever want
to run on that agent again.
And then if you know that all of the
tasks in your job have very similar
characteristics and they're going to
have the same opinion about that agent,
you can say, "Well,
just don't run any more tasks
from this job on this agent."
Or if that's not the issue,
maybe you just detected a transient
error condition in your task.
And so you could just say,
"Just retry it," and then the
controller will have the opportunity
to retry it wherever it wants,
and it may want to retry
it on that same agent.
You could also say,
"Retry job," which basically throws
out all of the results of all of the
tasks that have completed so far,
and then rewinds the job back
to the beginning and resubmits
all of the tasks out again,
and they start working again.
Now,
if your tasks keep telling the controller
to retry the tasks or retrying the jobs,
eventually the controller will say, "Hey,
I've retried too many times.
We're just going to give up."
So that's a configurable value.
You can say how many retries
are acceptable to you.
And then finally,
you can just fail the job.
And this is already the behavior,
but we've made it explicit
where if the task just says,
"You know what?
Things are messed up.
I was trying to connect
to this file server,
and apparently it's not even available.
Let's just fail it so we can let the
user know as soon as possible that
something is really wrong that they
need to address out of band from Xgrid.
So, task feedback and scoreboard are
pretty similar and in fact you
could get most of the features of
scoreboard by using task feedback.
Basically your task would go
out there and start running,
it would use syscadl or do its benchmark,
whatever it needed to do and determine,
hey, this computer is unsuitable,
never run any of the
job tasks here again.
But that's not the only thing you
can use it for and in fact you
can actually use these together
and I have an example here of why.
So, it might be that memory integrity
is really important to you,
like critical to you that
just no bits get flipped ever.
And so you've already bought
some Xservs that have ECC memory,
but not all of your Xservs have it.
And so you want to use scoreboard
to say only run my tasks on the
computers that have ECC memory.
And so you'd have an art that just
looks at that system profile value
and determines what kind of memory
there is and then returns it.
So, for example, if you have a computer
that has ECC memory,
you can run it on the
computer that has ECC memory,
but you don't have to run the task
on the computer that has ECC memory.
So, you can run the task on the
computer that has ECC memory.
And so you can use scoreboard
and see what kind of memory there
is and then returns either 1,
yes, it's ECC memory or 0, no,
don't run the task here.
But once the tasks do
go out to those agents,
the tasks may also have their own sort
of checksumming or error correcting
or maybe they just run the calculation
five times because you just absolutely
have to be sure that cosmic rays
did not give you the wrong answer.
And so what you're going to do here
is that you're going to do it a bunch
of times and compare the results.
And if you determine that, well,
the results aren't the
same after all these runs,
maybe this agent isn't really
as reliable as we were hoping.
Maybe this ECC memory,
there's something more to
it than just ECC memory and
something's going wrong here.
So let's just not use this agent
anymore for this job just to be safe.
And so this would be a way that you
can use these two features together to
really control where your tasks get sent
to initially and then also where they
remain and where they get scheduled.
And so this would be a way that you
can use these two features together to
really control where your tasks get sent
to initially and then also where they
remain and where they get scheduled.
at in the future.
So, at this point I would like to
invite Steve Simon up on the stage.
He's going to show you a
demo of Scoreboard in action.
And so we're going to be
using this rack down here.
I realize not all of you can see
what's going on with this rack,
so we have set up a video camera
that will be showing on the
screen what exactly you have,
what we have going on on this rack,
and you'll be able to see which
computers are being used when.
Okay, so for the demo,
the first thing that I would like to
show you is all we've done is added
one line to the job specification.
We get the ART data and
insert it into the job.
Very simple.
And then there's one other step,
which is later on when
we set the conditions,
we just insert a key that says
we want them to be exactly equal.
And if we take a look at what
an art controller looks like,
this is a very simple one.
In the rack of XSERVs here,
we have three types.
We have red, green, and blue.
And each of them will return a
score based on this program here.
So if it's red, it will return 1.
Greens are 2, and blue is 3.
And if it failed to return a score,
it would give us a 0,
and then nothing would run on that one.
Xgrid admin,
you can see we have a grid here.
And I have GridColor.
GridColor is a small application
that's going to run our jobs.
So first I'm going to pick
all the Xserves with the blue
profile and submit a job.
And you can see over here that the,
in fact, the blue Xs are running
and the others are not.
And then you can also
fire off a green job.
And now the green ones are lighting up.
And then you can also
fire off a green job.
And now the green ones are lighting up.
And then you can also
fire off a green job.
And now the green ones are lighting up.
Thank you, Steve.
So that's Scoreboard.
We're really excited about it.
It's based on your feedback.
Like I said,
we didn't really think you wanted
to care where your stuff ran,
but if you want to run all
your stuff on red Xservs,
be my guest.
So the last section of this talk
is to discuss the new features
that we've added for making your
life easier to deploy Xgrid.
And so what we've done is
Well, first,
let's say what other administrative
tools already exist for xGrid that are
already in Tiger and continue in Leopard.
And so first of all,
there's the sharing preferences.
And this is where you configure
the agent on Leopard systems,
on non-server Leopard systems,
and also Tiger systems.
There's a little check box, xGrid.
There's a Configure button.
You can use it to set up xGrid.
There's also server admin,
and we still have this,
although the UI has changed
a little bit for Leopard.
This is used to configure both the agent
and the controller on Leopard server.
You can turn it on and off,
set what kind of
authentication you care about,
and a couple of settings.
And then we have Xgrid Admin,
which Steve used briefly there.
And this lets you monitor,
once you've deployed your grid,
this lets you monitor the
actual state of your grid,
look at the job queues,
arrange agents into grids,
and see their status and see if they're
offline or if there's some problem.
So what we've done now is added a
new simplified server admin setup for
Xgrid to just make this easier for you.
So there's fewer steps to
deploy Xgrid on your machines.
So basically what this gives you the
choice of setting a couple of behaviors.
You can either say you want a
particular machine to host the grid or
you want it to participate in a grid.
And then we also give you
the option of turning Xgrid
off using the same mechanism.
So the simplified server admin setup does
require existing network infrastructure.
We don't set that up for you.
You're going to need DNS,
you're going to need open
directory because we're going to
be using Kerberos authentication,
so we need open directory or
some other directory service.
So you can set up a server admin setup,
and you can use server configuration
assistance to set up OD.
So you can actually go up
to the menu in server admin,
choose service configuration assistant,
and choose,
To set up OD,
check the open directory box and
then you check the Xgrid box and
It'll set up OD for you.
You just make, say,
Open Directory Master and click Continue,
and it'll set that up for you,
and then it'll run you
through the Xgrid setup.
And so at this point,
as long as you have DNS set
up somewhere on your network,
you can get your box hosting and grid
and running in Open Directory Master with
just a few clicks using the system.
The one more thing that the simplified
server admin setup does is it sets
up a shared file system for you.
And so let me digress for a moment
here to explain what this is all about.
So what we're doing here is
we're sort of adding a new data
staging mechanism for Xgrid.
As I said before,
you can include your job executables,
you can include input data with Xgrid,
with your job submissions,
and they'll get moved out across
the network to the agents.
And this is very convenient,
but it's not the most
efficient mechanism.
And so there can be a lot of memory
overhead for the controller to do this.
It's parsing XML that contains this data.
And it's going to have a lot of data.
It's going to have to copy
this data to all of the agents.
And it's actually going to have to
copy it to the agents before the
agents even begin running the task.
So if this is a large file,
a one gigabyte file,
you're going to have to wait
until the entire thing gets
there before the task starts,
even if the task maybe just wanted
a little piece of that large file or
maybe just wanted to start reading at
the beginning before the end arrived.
So rather than trying to
solve that with an Xgrid,
we want to acknowledge that other
people have solved this problem before,
and they've created network file systems.
And so what we're doing is giving you
an area where you can put your job data.
You just have to put it there
and then refer to it at that
path in your job submission.
And we're going to make sure that all
the agents that you've configured to
connect to your controller using the
simplified setup and that are bound
to this directory domain will get the
mount records and will be able to access
these shared file system in exactly
the same place across all the computers.
And so now you can put
your large data there,
and when it's time, for the tasks to run,
they just get to grab and stream
back the data that they care
about from the file server.
"The time for the tests to run,
they just get to grab and stream
back the data that they care
about from the file server."
So, what does it look like?
First of all, when you begin to do the
service configuration assistant,
you're given an explanation
of what the prerequisites are.
This is the DNS, the open directory.
And you're just told
what's going to happen.
And when you click continue,
it goes out and checks to make sure
that all those prereqs have been met.
And then you're given the option to
choose what exactly it is you want to do.
Do you want to host a grid?
Do you want to join a grid?
What do you want to do?
So, in this case,
we're going to host a grid.
And then we just need to enter
our directory administrator
username and password.
And we're going to use this credential
to create the export and the mount
record in the directory so that
everyone can get the shared file system.
Once you've entered that,
that's basically it.
Now we're giving you an option to
confirm all the settings you've chosen.
There weren't a lot to choose.
And as soon as you click continue here,
we're going to actually
go out and do the work.
And so what work do we do?
Well, we enable the controller,
which is like checking the box
in the old server admin UI.
We're also going to enable the agent,
and we're automatically going to point
the agent at that same controller that
we just configured on that computer.
You get both.
You get a full operating Xgrid
controller and agent connected to each
other using Kerberos authentication
just by doing this one step.
As I said,
Kerberos authentication is enabled so
you can feel secure that your data is
private and confidential and secure.
We're also going to create the
export record on the controller,
and we're going to put the mount record
in the directory so all of your agents
that are bound to that directory will
automatically mount that file system.
We're sharing it over NFS.
We're going to put the file
system in the Leopard seed,
and we'll be evaluating what we're
going to do with that as we move
on with the Leopard schedule.
So the file system is created.
There's a folder created at /Xgrid,
and then the file system is
mounted on all of the agents and
the controller at network Xgrid.
Joining a grid is very similar to this.
You just choose the second behavior,
join a grid.
In this case,
you're going to have to choose which
controller to use on your network.
You can either browse Bonjour discovered
controllers or you could,
if you have a controller
on another subnet,
you could just enter the host name
or the IP address right there.
Although,
you actually do need a host name
because Kerberos is going to use
that host name to make sure that
it's connecting to the right server.
So, then if that server that you're
configuring hasn't already been
Kerberized and doesn't already
have Kerberos principles,
we're going to do that for you.
And so we need the directory
administrator password again.
But if that server has already been
set up with Kerberos principles,
then we're going to skip this step.
And then finally we give
you the option to confirm.
And again,
there wasn't really many choices to make,
so you're just confirming that you
chose the right controller here.
And finally you hit continue
and it does the work for you.
The agent is enabled.
It's pointed at the controller you chose.
Kerberos authentication
for the agent is enabled.
And we made sure that the
principle was created if necessary.
So that's about it for this talk.
Those are the new features that we have.
So in summary,
we've added XRED scoreboard.
That's the big new feature I think
you guys are going to be excited
about to let you choose which of your
machines to use for a particular job.
We've added task feedback to evaluate
the conditions as they change there.
We have XRED Anywhere,
so it's easier to write your software
for people to use so that they don't need
to set up XRED to get started with it.
And then once they're ready to scale
beyond single computer performance,
they just need to set up XRED and
your application is going to
work and act exactly the same.
And then we have this new service
configuration assistant to make
it even easier to deploy XRED.
So all that together,
that's what we have for
you in the Leopard Seed.
You can look forward to some
additional improvements.
And I hope you guys enjoy.